Hello STAKEHOLDER,

When analyzing the quality of our data, there are 2 key aspects we look at: completeness and validity. 

Completeness answers the question: do we have all the data we expect to have? Ideally, we have all data fields (columns) for all records 
in our datasets, but this is usually never the case. However, for certain data columns, we can reasonably expect them to be
available 100% of the time.

Key findings about data completeness:

    1. PRODUCTS 
        - We expect the BARCODE and CATEGORY_1 fields to be 100% available.
        - BARCODE field is missing in 0.48 of all records. It acts as an unique identifier for all products.
        - CATEGORY_1 field is missing in 0.01% of all records. It is also a very important field to identify each product.
    2. TRANSACTIONS 
        - We expect all fields besides the BARCODE field to be 100% available and they are.
    3. USERS 
        - We expect the ID and CREATED_DATE fields to be 100% available and they are.

Validity answers the question: does available data make sense for the data field? For example, we expect a quantity value to always be 
a number.

Key findings about data validity:

    1. PRODUCTS 
        - Some data fields have default values that can be used to achieve 100% data completion if we otherwise do not have that data. 
          For example, the CATEGORY columns have a default value of `Needs Review`.
    2. TRANSACTIONS 
        - 51.1% of all records are duplicates. Each record should have a unique RECEIPT_ID.
        - 25% of FINAL_QUANTITY values is `zero`. This field should never be zero because this indicates there was no sale of anything.
        - All values should be represented as a whole number (0.22% of all records do not follow this rule)
    3. USERS 
        - 1.3% of all available birthday data is probably inaccurate because it a default value. 1970-01-01 is a value that
          represents the beginning of Unix time (universal coordinated time). A high percentage of users are unlikely to have the exact
          same birthday.
       - The GENDER column has unique values that represent the same thing. For example, there is `prefer_not_to_say` and 
         `Prefer not to say` which represent the same thing. There should be one unique version of each value.

Despite the data quality issues we see, we can still find the following trend:
    Of users that have had their account for at least 6 months, the top 5 brands by sales are:
        1. CVS
        2. Dove
        3. Trident
        4. Coors Light
        5. Tresemme

Questions about the data to make more sense of it:
    1. For our PRODUCTS data, where do we get the values for most of our data fields? Are they provided to us or do we logically deduct 
       these values ourselves?
    2. Does each record in our TRANSACTIONS data represent one receipt or one item in a receipt? For the sake of having good
       data quality, I assumed each record represents one receipt. This way, each record has a unique RECEIPT_ID. However, the 
       existence of the FINAL_QUANTITY and PRODUCT fields suggest the other option.
       - Follow Up: If each record represents a specific item in a receipt, where is the other ID column that represents each unique
         record? Or is there another table entirely that holds this data?
    3. For our USERS data, do users have the option to not provide any of the data elements?

Thank you for reviewing these findings.

Sol Kim


